Reviewer 4 of ICRA 2015 submission 3072

Comments to the author
======================

Evaluating whether a robot motion is human-like is a
challenging work – it is difficult to hand-design a
function that judge the quality of the motion
appropriately. This paper presents an interesting
data-driven approach for evaluating motion quality. The
data is collected through an online survey which lets human
reviewer provide the feedback of the motion quality.
According to the feedbacks, the authors propose a set of
features including trajectory features and comparative
features. Several classification frameworks are used to
determine the importance of the proposed features. 

Generally, the paper is well-written though some parts need
improvement. In part C of section IV, the authors propose
two methods of comparing pairs of trajectories, Hausdorff
distance and Dynamic Time Warping. The two methods are
stated but few explanation is given to the intellectual
merits of choosing the methods – why would they be good
measures? It is possible that due to the page limits the
authors choose not to go into further explanation. But to
make it to be a self-contained paper, I suggest the authors
give a brief discussion in the revised version. A minor
issue in writing is consistency. In part B of section IV,
the paper says workspace trajectory for finger-tip is
considered. I assume the “tool” in section V refers to
finger-tip. To remove the ambiguity, the terminology should
be used consistently.
 
Overall, the paper is interesting and it can be accepted.  

Comments on the Video Attachment
================================

The video demonstrates the work well.